Add ash suzaku (#1)
AshAvalanche/avalanche-docs: content/integrations/suzaku.mdx

---
title: Suzaku

> category: Developer Tooling

Reviewer: Wondering if Suzaku should go under `Developer Tooling` or if we should create a new category. Maybe Ava Labs will tell us

description: Suzaku is the (re)staking protocol for sovereign networks.
logo: /images/suzaku.png

> developer: ADDPHO

Reviewer: I think we can use Suzaku out of simplicity
```suggestion
developer: Suzaku
```

website: https://suzaku.network
documentation: https://docs.suzaku.network
---

## Overview

> Suzaku is the (re)staking protocol for sovereign networks. With the Suzaku Framework powered by the Avalanche L1 stack, Suzaku provides the best way to build, operate, and secure any kind of sovereign network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suzaku is the (re)staking protocol for sovereign networks. With the Suzaku Framework, you can bootstrap and increase the cryptoeconomic security of your Avalanche L1, as well as scale and decentralize its validator set.
```

## Features

> - **Cryptoeconomic security to bootstrap**: Suzaku allows users to secure sovereign networks (Avalanche L1s) through (re)staking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cryptoeconomic security to bootstrap**: Suzaku allows users to secure Avalanche L1s through (re)staking, enabling liquid staking of L1s' native tokens and dual staking security models with blue-chip tokens like AVAX, BTC, and ETH as collateral.
```

> - **Operators to scale and decentralize**: High-tier infrastructure providers and validators offer their services to Suzaku Sovereign Networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Operators to scale and decentralize**: High-tier infrastructure providers and validators offer their services to Avalanche L1s through Suzaku.
```

> - **An ecosystem of decentralized services**: Some networks, like the Suzaku Relayer Network, are purpose-built to provide critical services (i.e. censorship-resistant interoperability) to other Suzaku Sovereign Networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **An ecosystem of decentralized services**: Some networks, like the [Suzaku Relayer Network](https://docs.suzaku.network/suzaku-rn), are purpose-built to provide critical services (i.e. censorship-resistant interoperability) to other Avalanche L1s.
```

## Getting Started

The best way to get started with Suzaku is to go through the [Restaking Guide](https://docs.suzaku.network/suzaku-restaking/for-stakers/restaking-guide).

## Documentation

The Suzaku documentation is available at [https://docs.suzaku.network](https://docs.suzaku.network).

## Use Cases

Avalanche L1 builders can leverage Suzaku in many different ways. Here are some examples of what you can do with Suzaku:

- **Validator set management**: Open-source security modules to manage your L1 validator set using PoA, PoS, dual-staking, etc.
- **L1 liquid staking**: LST-as-a-service for your Avalanche L1 and multi-LST liquidity pools.
- **Scaling and decentralization**: Suzaku helps you to scale and decentralize your L1 with high-tier infrastructure providers and validators.
- **Suzaku Relayer Network**: Supercharging Avalanche Warp Messaging with censorship-resistance and enhanced security for Avalanche L1 bridges

## Conclusion

> Suzaku is the go-to protocol for L1 builders looking to decentralize their network through (re)staking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suzaku is the go-to protocol for L1 builders looking to decentralize their network while keeping a high degree of security through (re)staking.
```
